* put 90% of your time into four sections:

1) your headline (the part under your name)
    Should include: skills and software and techs you are familar with
    set to the job you want!
2) your about sections
    include your accomplishments, 
3) your experience sections:

4) your skills section:
    don't be humble here

* lookup real job disctriptions and include the most commonly looked for skills 
and add any of these that you have in your skills section exactly how they 
most appear. this is importent for "SEO" of linkedin, recruiters will find
you easier with the right keywords here

* list as many skills as you have at the bottom of your about section
    have a "skills include:" section at the bottom of your about section

* dont mention any skills more than once in any section but the most importent
and relevant ones should be lised once in each section: headline, about, experience,
and skills sections

* if there is skills that a lot of the job descriptions for jobs you would like
to apply for mention that you don't know anything about then watch at least 2 
hours of youtube/video tutorials on the subject and try to get a baseline 
undertanding and working knowledge of it and then go ahead and list it in your
skills section. if a potential employer ask about it be honest about your level
of knowledge in the area but you don't have to be an expert in something to list
it in your skills section

* write post at least once a week just saying what you are working on, what you are learning,
what challenges you may have faced and overcome.

* activly seek out people and send connection request

* include any completed udemy courses and both of josh's courses in your
education section and liscenses and certifications section, and josh's
courses should be in your accomplishments section

* 

***** from Danny Thompson youtube linkedin "course" ****

recruiters wont click on your profile unless your title specifically 
says what you do

talk about what you do like you were talking to a family member
talk about what you do like you were talking to a family member

about section should be short and makes your points succently 

your featured section should be where your portfolio goes.
your github, code samples, portfolio. a place to click on 
and go to your work

list all skills and knowledge as things you do currently. try to avoid
saying still learning or things along those lines

follower count doesn't matter at all for you

your experience shouldn't say what you did, but what you achieved.
there is probably quite a few things you achieved at flatbranch that,
when phrased correctly, will be of interest to a portential employrer.
You may not consider flatbranch to be "relevant job experience" but 
it is going to be very improtent how you talk about what you achieved
while working there on your profile.

profile picture should be warm, bright, and inviting

you need to be hitting all the right keywords in your about section.

your about section should read in around 15 seconds

any recruiter or potential hiring manager should be able to easily
tell exactly what it is you do and would be good to hire you for

